NIKOLAI KONDRASHOV

Location: Espoo, Finland
mailto:spbnick@gmail.com

Self-taught software engineer with more than 15 years of professional
experience. Unix philosophy devotee, with good understanding of open source
principles.

Interested in building and integrating system and network software,
special-purpose and embedded systems. Enjoy working close to the HW.

Always ready to expand the personal toolset to be able to use the best tool
for the job at hand. Follow strict engineering discipline.


TECHNICAL SKILLS

Languages:      C, Lua, Bash, Perl, Python, ClearSilver, HTML, CSS,
                JavaScript, XML, XSD, m4, SQL, C++, Java,
                Assembly (ARM, 8086, Z80)

Dev. tools:     Vim, autotools, make, git, Subversion, Perforce, Bugzilla,
                Jira, Mantis

Protocols:      CGI, DHCP, DNS, FastCGI, FTP, HTTP, IMAP, POP3, PPP, RTSP,
                SMB/CIFS, SMTP, TCP/IP, USB HID

Developing:     CLI, GUI, Kernel drivers (input), System tools,
                Userspace drivers (input, graphics), WebUI

Administering:  DHCP servers, Directory servers, DNS servers, E-mail servers
                and gateways, Fax servers, Groupware servers, IP gateways
                and firewalls, Print servers, Software PBX, Storage servers,
                Web servers and proxies, Database servers

Platforms:      Debian GNU/Linux, Android (system level), RHEL, Fedora Linux

I worked with and dabbled in many other technologies, albeit to a lesser
extent, or less recently than the ones listed above. It is generally not a
problem for me to learn another skill/programming language/library/protocol
to an advanced degree.


PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE

Software Engineer (remote)                  2014 - present
Red Hat Software, identity management
http://www.redhat.com/

    Develop User Session Recording solution, participate in sssd development,
    maintain FreeRADIUS package.

    Developed several tools to support implementing a User Session Recording
    solution for Enterprise environments. Did a few minor sssd improvements.
    Brought up continuous integration process for SSSD project. Helped
    implement and contribute a few customer-requested features for FreeRADIUS,
    made several package releases.


Part-time Software Engineer, Founder        2008 - present
DIGImend project (not-for-profit)
http://digimend.github.io/
https://github.com/DIGImend/

    Improve Linux support for generic graphics tablets. Support users.

    Added support for 16 graphics tablet models to the Linux kernel.
    Contributed tablet-related fixes to xf86-input-evdev and
    xf86-input-wacom drivers.

    Designed and developed several supplementary tools, including: USB HID
    report descriptor conversion library and tool, designed to allow
    modification and authoring, USB HID protocol dumping utility (included
    into usbutils), evdev protocol dumping utility.


Sr. Quality Assurance Engineer (remote)     2012 - 2014
Red Hat Software, identity management QE
http://www.redhat.com/

    Completed a couple of test suites covering some sssd features. Helped
    improve code quality by introducing code reviews with Gerrit, coding and
    commit guidelines. In my spare time, designed and developed a test
    framework to replace the currently used one.


Sr. System Software Engineer                2011 - 2012
NVIDIA, Tegra graphics team
http://www.nvidia.com/object/tegra.html

    Participate in the development of the Tegra OpenGL ES driver and
    development tools.

    Added several features to the Tegra OpenGL ES driver, including support
    for Tegra 4 geometry instancing. Added support for code coverage data
    collection and reports for the Tegra Android BSP, both kernel and
    userspace. Designed, implemented and maintained test suite control
    library and tools written in Lua.


System Software Engineer (mostly remote)    2006 - 2011
OKTET Labs (embedded software engineering)
http://www.oktetlabs.ru/

    Home gateway project

        Participate in the design, development and maintenance of a
        centrally managed home gateway software platform spanning multiple
        embedded MIPS platform variants. Help maintain a legacy version of
        the platform.

        Designed and developed a modularised Web user interface (WebUI)
        engine along with pages and modules (over 150 pages, over 130
        modules, translated to 6 languages, including Arabic), controlling
        most of the gateway functionality through a central configuration
        and resource management (CRM) application. Designed and developed
        WebUI customization framework, aimed at the immediate customers
        (triple play providers).

        Designed and developed various CRM features, including: SMB and
        WebDAV storage server management with user/group access control, USB
        printer management, direct (TCP) and SMB printing management with a
        simple spooler, "safe mode" support, HTTP server management.

        Debugged and fixed numerous management, network and kernel software
        issues. Submitted fixes to upstream open source projects. Designed
        and developed several supplemental tools.

    Test environment project
    http://oktetlabs.ru/test_env.rhtml

        Participate in the development and maintenance of an in-house test
        framework.

        Designed and developed a cURL library test agent RPC API with a
        wrapper API for the home gateway WebUI testing.
        Redesigned and reimplemented XML report generation tool to support
        large files.

    ATM gateway project
    http://oktetlabs.ru/success/atm_gateway.rhtml

        Help implement automatic test suite.
        Coded a big part of the AAL5 test suite.


System Administrator                        2002 - 2006
Avtomatika-Sever / Avtomatika RUS (industrial automation)
http://www.avtomatika.info / http://www.avtomatikarus.com

    Maintain and improve company IT infrastructure. Tailor open source
    software to meet company needs. Develop in-house scripts and small
    software tools. Develop and maintain company website. Support users.

    Improved overall stability, security and maintainability of company IT
    services, minimized licensing costs, by replacing Windows-hosted server
    software with more robust open source analogues.

    Adapted HylaFAX fax server software to support certain voice
    functions. Adapted several other open source software packages to
    fit system infrastructure.


Web Developer                               2001 - 2002
Intero (web studio, now closed)
http://web.archive.org/web/20030212214103/www.intero.ru/

    Design, develop and maintain various Perl-based website back-ends and
    front-ends. Research on and develop Java-based interactive website
    back-end.

    Completely rewritten a popular public guestbook service to improve
    performance and maintainability. Participated in development and coding
    of several medium-sized company websites.


Software Engineer                           1999
IMEXLINE / IMEXMED (medicine trade, now closed)

    Participate in design, development and maintenance of a Windows-based
    in-house point-of-sale system. Designed and developed a salesperson
    interface to the system with cash register back-end interface.


Software Intern                             1996 - 1998
Information and Measurement Systems and Technologies department,
Saint-Petersburg State Electrotechnical University
(education, research and development)
http://www.eltech.ru/kafedrs/iist/

    Participate in design and development of several Windows-based ecology
    simulation/forecasting/analytical software packages and supplemental
    tools. Designed and developed various features, including: complex report
    formatting and printing, trivial image tracing, mapping and other user
    interface functions.


SOFT SKILLS

Enjoy working in a team. Good ability to listen and understand, explain
complex concepts using simple terms. Quick learning, able to dive quickly
into unfamiliar areas. Fluent English reading and comprehension, legible
writing. Able to maintain both technical and general topic conversations in
English.


PERSONAL INTERESTS

Constantly program and hack computers and related devices since late childhood
- started with Basic, C and Assembler on DOS and ZX Spectrum.  Participate in
open-source projects. Study electronics and embedded software development as a
hobby. Enjoy rock and related music. A fan of Terry Pratchett.


FURTHER REFERENCE

http://github.com/spbnick
https://plus.google.com/u/0/+NikolaiKondrashov
http://www.linkedin.com/in/spbnick
http://stackoverflow.com/users/1161045/spbnick
